The foundation for any good well-built application begins
with the data and the database layout.
So to speed things up,
I'm providing a schema and some sample data that you can install so you have
something local to work with as you build this application.
Here is a view of the ER diagram of the database.
There are a lot of tables I'm providing here,
but we're only going to be building out a certain subset.
We'll be focusing on speakers and sessions and their relationships.
Even though this subset might not look like much,
it's enough to cover concepts like many-to-many relationships,
handling binary data for images, foreign keys,
and all of that fun stuff that you end up dealing
with in a real-world application.
To help you get your database set up locally,
simply head over to your browser and go to the following URL,
github.com /dlbunker/ps-first-spring-boot-app.
And this repository will contain database help to get you up and running.
So simply jump into the database/postgres folder,
and you can see that there is two basic files here,
create_tables and insert_data.
But before you can do that, you actually need a database.
You have a couple of options.
If you have a local postgres database instance already set up,
you can simply log in with PSQL and perform the create database command,
switch to that database,
and then run the create_tables file followed by the insert_data file.
If you don't have a local postgres instance available,
the next easiest way is to run postgres in a Docker container.
I've included instructions for this,
and they're available in the readme file on the GitHub repo in this folder.
At this point, go ahead and get your database tables installed,
and add the data to it, and then come back to the video when you're ready.
I'm using a postgres database client called Postico,
but any database client that you are familiar with or can
work with will be just fine to use.
Just make sure that before moving on,
you have your database set up and you can connect to it.
In this case, you can see all of my tables are listed here.
And if I go look at sessions, I can go into one of these,
and you'll see that I have some session data inside of the session table.
One thing that you'll want to note here is that the URL
that you use to connect to your database,
you're going to need that information available because coming up, we will actually use that to connect Spring to the database.